1¡£
agenda
There are two items on the agenda for today's office meeting: the company's new product and the holiday party.

Ralph's daily agenda includes driving his granddaughter to school, working at the soup kitchen, and walking his dog after dinner.

2¡£
antidote

Because there was no antidote for the snake's poison, the cat that was bitten died.

For me, a good antidote to feeling low is to bake a batch brownies.

3¡£
apathy

Deternmined to shock her students out of their apathy, the history teacher showed up for class one day dressed as Joan of Arc.

Voter apathy was high, causing a low turnout on election day.

4.
bland

The addition of a bright red scarf changed Linda's grey outfit from bland to striking.

Mexicans, accustomed to hot and spicy foods, often find American dishes bland by comparison.

5.
propaganda

Until recently, the propaganda put out by cigarette companies said that nicotine didn't harm people's health.

The political candidates ran TV ads made up largely of propganda directed against their opponents.

6.
prospects

The movie's prospects for doing well at the box office were harmed by several bad reviews in the newspapers and on TV.

What are my prospects of finding a hotel room in this town during Super Bowl weekend£¿

7.
radical

I won't vote for the radical candidate ---- his beliefs are too extreme for me.

Most students tried to change school policy through peaceful compromise, but a radical group wanted to take over the president's office by force.

8.
reinforce

Jonathan's wisecrack reinforced the teacher's opinion that he was interested only in fooling around.

Some socks are reinforeced at the heels and toes with extra layers of material so they won't develop holes.

9.
relevant

History is alwasys relevant to our lives because it shows us what results can follow certain actions.

"The weather is not relevant to this conversation," Yvonne's mother said. "Don't change the subject when I bring up your speeding tickets."

10.
ruthless

My English teacher is a ruthless grader. He shows no mercy for weak reasoning or faulty grammar, so I've had to work extra hard on my papers.

Barry is so ruthless that he would step on coworkers to advance himself.








