Final Check: Who's on Trial?

Here is a final opportunity for you to strengthen your knowledge of the ten words. First read the following selection carefully. Then fill in each blank with a word from the box at the top of the previous page. (Context clues will help you figure out which word goes in which blank.) Use each word once.



    It would be nice to think every trial involved an impartial judge and jury who wanted only to decide a case fairly. However, we would be naive to believe the world is always fair and just. Two famous trials in history show us that when accusers have no legitimate charges, they sometimes invent some.

    The first trial was that of Socrates, a teacher in ancient Greece. Socrates did not give lectures or write books. Instead, he wandered around the marketplace in Athens, starting a discussion with anyone he met. Socrates was a man of great integrity: he lived an honest life in search of truth. But by pointing out the faults of some upper-class Athenians, he made enemies. The Greek authorities feared he would undermine their ability to rule. Eventually Socrates was arrested and tried for being a menace to the youth of Athens. He was found guilty and sentenced to death. His friends urged him to escape, but Socrates said he had to comply with the court's decree. He carried out the sentence by drinking a cup of poison.

    Jesus of Nazareth was another teacher who lived a life of great honesty. He, too, frightened the authorities of his time. More and more people flocked to hear the words of this carpenter who spoke of God as a loving father. Afraid he might encourage people to turn against them, the authorities invented charges against him. They said he hurt the morale of the country, making people unhappy and restless. The authorities' illegal treatment of Jesus was overt: they allowed no lawyer or advisers to help him; they took him from his friends late at night, beat him, and dragged him into court the next morning. He was brought before the Roman governor Pontius Pilate. Pilate made some attempt to be impartial with Jesus, at one point making this concise statement to the crowd, 'I find no guilt in this man." However, Pilate lacked the courage to act on his belief. He had Jesus beaten yet again and sent him to be executed.

    The evidence is clear and should not be deleted from the history books: in some trials, society itself is the guilty party.

